# plotsetups_me python library, v 0.1.0
This python library is created with the purpose of facilitating customization on the plots generated by `matplotlib`. On the current version (v 0.1.0), this includes 2 main packages:

- `plotparams`: a package that defines some rc parameters for the plots.
- `ds9colors`: a package that register SAOImageDS9 colormaps (18 on the current version). Also includes some useful functions concerning the colormaps.

## plotparams
This package only includes one function: `plot_params()`. When executing the following command line:

```python
from plotsetups_me import plotparams

plotparams.plot_setup()
```

your plots will have the following parameters setted:

```python
rcParams['axes.linewidth']    = 2.3
scatter_kwargs                    = {"zorder":100}
error_kwargs                      = {"lw":.9, "zorder":0}
rc('font', weight = 'medium', family = 'serif', size = 15)
rcParams['xtick.major.size']  = 7
rcParams['xtick.major.width'] = 1.8
rcParams['xtick.minor.size']  = 3
rcParams['xtick.minor.width'] = 1.5
rcParams['ytick.major.size']  = 7
rcParams['ytick.major.width'] = 1.8
rcParams['ytick.minor.size']  = 3
rcParams['ytick.minor.width'] = 1.8
rcParams['pdf.fonttype']      = 42
rcParams['ps.fonttype']       = 42
rcParams['xtick.direction']   = 'in'
rcParams['ytick.direction']   = 'in'
rcParams["legend.fancybox"]   = True
rcParams['xtick.major.pad']   = 6
rcParams['ytick.major.pad']   = 6
rcParams["mathtext.fontset"]  = "dejavuserif"
```

On future versions of the library some customization of these parameters will be added for making everything easier. Until then, you can always modify the parameters to you desire after importing the package, or not importing the package.

## ds9colors

This package implements 18 [SAOImageDS9](https://sites.google.com/cfa.harvard.edu/saoimageds9) colormaps to be used with `matplotlib`. The definition of the current colormaps is taken from the following website: [DS9 colormap definitions](https://qiita.com/yusuke_s_yusuke/items/b30ca36be1c43beecde5). All the credits go to there. The package is composed mainly by 4 functions:

- `is_cmap_registered()` checks if a name is registered as colormap in your current terminal. While it is not necessary to run (it is necessary only by the rest of functions), it might be useful.

- `list_registered_colormaps()` prints on the terminal all the DS9 colormaps included in this package that have been already registered. It is useful to see which DS9 colormaps you have.

- `register_{cmap}()`. Where `{cmap}` is the name of the colormap. This function register the specific colormap, and the reversed version of it. The map is then registered on `matplotlib` as `ds9_{cmap}` (and `ds9_{cmap}_r` for the reversed version). The list of all cmaps (named as `ds9_{cmap}`) included in this package is also available by running 

```python
from plotsetups_me import ds9colors
print(ds9colors.list_ds9colors)
```

- `register_all()`. This function executes all the functions `register_{cmap}()` present on the package, i.e., register all the DS9 colormaps available in this package.

A very basic use of this package, leading to the registration of all the colormaps registered in it, will be the following:

```python
from plotsetups_me import ds9colors
ds9colors.register_all()
ds9colors.list_registered_colormaps()
```

## Example of use
You can see an example of use in the folder `tests`. Inside it, you can run `test_library.py` and retrieve the .pdf files that are also stored in the folder. The output of `ds9colormap.list_registered_colormaps()` will be the following:
```
List of registered DS9 colormaps: 
ds9_grey - ds9_grey_r
ds9_red - ds9_red_r
ds9_green - ds9_green_r
ds9_blue - ds9_blue_r
ds9_a - ds9_a_r
ds9_b - ds9_b_r
ds9_bb - ds9_bb_r
ds9_he - ds9_he_r
ds9_i8 - ds9_i8_r
ds9_aips - ds9_aips_r
ds9_heat - ds9_heat_r
ds9_cool - ds9_cool_r
ds9_rainbow - ds9_rainbow_r
ds9_staircase - ds9_staircase_r
ds9_standard - ds9_standard_r
ds9_color - ds9_color_r
ds9_sls - ds9_sls_r
ds9_hsv - ds9_hsv_r
```



